Add templates for Web Extensions page types (#42204)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mdn/writing_guidelines/page_structures/page_types/webextension_api/index.md

---
title: WebExtension API page template
slug: MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types/WebExtension_API_page_template
page-type: mdn-writing-guide
sidebar: mdnsidebar
---

This page describes the structure and content of a WebExtension API overview page. To get started quickly, copy the template file at [`files/templates/webextensions/api-overview.md`](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/files/templates/webextensions/api-overview.md) in the content repository. Save it as `index.md` in a directory that corresponds to the slug. Then use the guidance below to fill in each section.

## Page front matter

The front matter at the top of the page defines page metadata. The values must be updated appropriately for the WebExtension API namespace.

```md
---
title: Namespace
slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/Namespace
page-type: webextension-api
status:
  - deprecated
  - experimental
browser-compat: webextensions.api.Namespace
sidebar: addonsidebar
---
```

- **title**

>   - : Title heading displayed at the top of the page. This is just the name of the WebExtension API namespace, for example `runtime` or `downloads`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Title heading displayed at the start of the page. This is the name of the WebExtension API namespace, for example, `runtime` or `downloads`.
```

```

## Description section

If there is additional detail to convey beyond what fits in the introductory paragraph — such as key concepts, usage patterns, or important caveats — include a `## Description` section placed between the introduction and the member-listing sections (Types, Properties, Functions, Events). Omit this section if the introductory paragraph is sufficient.

## Types section

If the namespace defines types, list them using `{{WebExtAPIRef}}` macros and provide a brief, single-sentence description of each. Omit this section if there are no types.

## Properties section

If the namespace defines properties, list them using `{{WebExtAPIRef}}` macros and provide a brief, single-sentence description of each. Omit this section if there are no properties.

## Functions section

List all the functions in the namespace using `{{WebExtAPIRef}}` macros and provide a short, single-sentence description of each, following existing pages like [`runtime`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/runtime) or [`extension`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/extension). Omit this section if there are no functions.

## Events section

> If the namespace defines events, list them using `{{WebExtAPIRef}}` macros and provide a brief description of when each event fires. Omit this section if there are no events.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
List all the events in the namespace alphabetically using a [definition list](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Howto/Markdown_in_MDN#definition_lists). Reference each event's documentation using the `{{WebExtAPIRef}}` macro and provide a description. Where possible, limit the description to one brief sentence. 

For example:

```md
- {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.onRuleMatchedDebug")}}
  - : Fired when a rule is matched with a request when debugging an extension with the "declarativeNetRequestFeedback" permission.
```

Omit this section if there are no methods.
````
